**IP spoofing** is a network attack performed when an attacker changes the source IP of a data packet to impersonate an authorized system and gain access to a network. In this kind of attack, the hacker is pretending to be someone they are not so they can communicate over the network with the target computer and get past firewall rules that may prevent outside traffic. Some common IP spoofing attacks are on-path attacks, replay attacks, and smurf attacks. Let's discuss these one at a time.

The device’s **Network Interface Card** **(NIC)** is a piece of hardware that connects the device to a network. The NIC reads the data transmission, and if it contains the device’s MAC address, it accepts the packet and sends it to the device to process the information based on the protocol. This occurs in all standard network operations. However, a NIC can be set to promiscuous mode, which means that it accepts all traffic on the network, even the packets that aren’t addressed to the NIC’s device. You’ll learn more about NIC’s later in the program. Malicious actors might use software like Wireshark to capture the data on a private network and store it for later use. They can then use the personal information to their own advantage. Alternatively, they might use the IP and MAC addresses of authorized users of the private network to perform IP spoofing.

### On-path attack
An **on-path attack** happens when a hacker intercepts the communication between two devices or servers that have a trusted relationship. The transmission between these two trusted network devices could contain valuable information like usernames and passwords that the malicious actor can collect. An on-path attack is sometimes referred to as a **meddler-in-the middle attack** because the hacker is hiding in the middle of communications between two trusted parties.
Or, it could be that the intercepted transmission contains a DNS system look-up. You’ll recall from an earlier video that a DNS server translates website domain names into IP addresses. If a malicious actor intercepts a transmission containing a DNS lookup, they could spoof the DNS response from the server and redirect a domain name to a different IP address, perhaps one that contains malicious code or other threats. The most important way to protect against an on-path attack is to encrypt your data in transit, e.g. using TLS.

*Summarized*: An on-path attack is an attack where the malicious actor places themselves in the middle of an authorized connection and intercepts or alters the data in transit. On-path attackers gain access to the network and put themselves between two devices, like a web browser and a web server. Then they sniff the packet information to learn the IP and MAC addresses to devices that are communicating with each other. After they have this information, they can pretend to be either of these devices.
Alternatively, 

### Replay attack
Another type of attack is a *replay attack*. A replay attack is a network attack performed when a malicious actor intercepts a data packet in transit and delays it or repeats it at another time. A delayed packet can cause connection issues between target computers, or a malicious actor may take a network transmission that was sent by an authorized user and repeat it at a later time to impersonate the authorized user.
Alternatively, 

### Smurf attack
A **smurf attack** is a network attack that is performed when an attacker sniffs an authorized user’s IP address and floods it with packets. Once the spoofed packet reaches the broadcast address, it is sent to all of the devices and servers on the network.
In a smurf attack, IP spoofing is combined with another denial of service (DoS) technique to flood the network with unwanted traffic. For example, the spoofed packet could include an Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) ping. As you learned earlier, ICMP is used to troubleshoot a network. But if too many ICMP messages are transmitted, the ICMP echo responses overwhelm the servers on the network and they shut down. This creates a denial of service and can bring an organization’s operations to a halt.

*Summarized*: A smurf attack is a combination of a DDoS attack and an IP spoofing attack. The attacker sniffs an authorized user's IP address and floods it with packets. This overwhelms the target computer and can bring down a server or the entire network.

### DoS attack
As you’ve learned, once the malicious actor has sniffed the network traffic, they can impersonate an authorized user. A **Denial of Service attack** is a class of attacks where the attacker prevents the compromised system from performing legitimate activity or responding to legitimate traffic. Unlike IP spoofing, however, the attacker will not receive a response from the targeted host. Everything about the data packet is authorized including the IP address in the header of the packet. In IP spoofing attacks, the malicious actor uses IP packets containing fake IP addresses. The attackers keep sending IP packets containing fake IP addresses until the network server crashes.

## Prevention techniques
As you previously learned, encryption should always be implemented so that the data in your network transfers can't be read by malicious actors. Firewalls can be configured to protect against IP spoofing. IP spoofing makes it seem like the malicious actor is an authorized user by changing the sender's address of the data packet to match the target network's address. So if a firewall receives a data packet from the internet where the sender's IP address is the same as the private network, then the firewall will deny the transmission since all the devices with that IP address should already be on the local network. You can make sure that your firewalls configure correctly by creating a rule to reject all incoming traffic that has the same IP address as the local network.
An important way to protect against a smurf attack is to use an advanced firewall that can monitor any unusual traffic on the network. Most next generation firewalls (NGFW) include features that detect network anomalies to ensure that oversized broadcasts are detected before they have a chance to bring down the network.


**Pro Tip**: Remember the principle of defense-in-depth. There isn’t one perfect strategy for stopping each kind of attack. You can layer your defense by using multiple strategies. In this case, using industry standard encryption will strengthen your security and help you defend from DoS attacks on more than one level.