Security teams classify assets based on value. Next, let's expand our security mindset and think about this question. What exactly is valuable about an asset?

These days, the answer is often information. Most information is in a digital form. We call this data. Data is information that is translated, processed, or stored by a computer. We live in a connected world. Billions of devices around the world are linked to the internet and are exchanging data with each other all the time. In fact, millions of pieces of data are being passed to your device right now! When compared to physical assets, digital assets have additional challenges. What you need to understand is that protecting data depends on where that data is and what it's doing. Security teams protect data in three different states: in use, in transit, and at rest. Let's investigate this idea in greater detail.

Data in use is data being accessed by one or more users. Imagine being at a park with your laptop. It's a nice sunny day, and you stop at a bench to check your email. This is an example of data in use. As soon as you log in, your inbox is considered to be in use.

Next, is data in transit. Data in transit is data traveling from one point to another. While you're signed into your account, a message from one of your friends appears. They sent you an interesting article about the growing security industry. You decide to reply, thanking them for sending this to you. When you click send, this is now an example of data in transit.

Finally, there's data at rest. Data at rest is data not currently being accessed. In this state, data is typically stored on a physical device. An example of data at rest would be when you finish checking your email and close your laptop. You then decide to pack up and go to a nearby cafe for breakfast. As you make your way from the park towards the cafe, the data in your laptop is at rest. So now that we understand these states of data, let's connect this back to asset management.

Earlier, I mentioned that information is one of the most valuable assets that companies can have. Information security, or InfoSec, is the practice of keeping data in all states away from unauthorized users. Weak information security is a serious problem. It can lead to things like identity theft, financial loss, and reputational damage. These events have potential to harm organizations, their partners, and their customers.

And there's more to consider in your work as a security analyst. As our digital world continually changes, we are adapting our understanding of data at rest. Physical devices like our smartphones more commonly store data in the cloud, meaning that our information isn't necessarily at rest just because our phone is resting on a table. We should always be mindful of new vulnerabilities as our world becomes increasingly connected.

Remember, protecting data depends on where the data is and what it's doing. Keeping track of information is part of the puzzle that companies solve when considering their security plan. Understanding the three states of data enable security teams to analyze risk and determine an asset management plan for different situations.